in imperial china
hua mulan is an adventurous and active
girl to the disappointment of her
parents
who hope that one day she will be wed to
a good husband
as a young woman mulan is forced to meet
with a matchmaker to demonstrate her
fitness as a future wife
to the north an imperial outpost is
invaded by rauren warriors
under the leadership of bori khan they
are assisted by the witch hunyang
who uses her magic to pose as a
surviving soldier
and report the attack to the emperor of
china he then issues a conscription
decree ordering every family to
contribute one man to fight khan's
forces
imperial soldiers arrive in mulan's
village to enlist recruits
and her father hua zhu is forced to
pledge his services he has no
sons immediately kneeling over in front
of the soldiers due to his bad leg
realizing that her father has no chance
of survival
mulan flees with his armor horse and
sword to join in his place
mulan arrives at the training camp which
is run by commander tong
an old comrade of hua zhu alongside
dozens of other inexperienced recruits
she ultimately becomes a trained soldier
under his tutelage without exposing her
true identity
the khan's army continues to advance
forcing tongue to end training early
and send his battalion to fight mulan
chases some troops on her own
but is confronted by xinyang who mocks
her for pretending to be a man
she attempts to kill mulan but her
attacks are stopped by the leather with
which mulan's chest had been bound to
hide her identity
mulan removes her male disguise
returning to the battle
just as the raurens begin attacking her
fellow troops with a trebuchet
mulan uses discarded helmets and her
archery skills to maneuver the trebuchet
into firing on a snowy mountain
triggering an avalanche that buries the
rowans
mulan rides back to camp and rescues
chen hongi
a soldier she befriended in camp
unable to hide her true gender any
longer she is expelled from the army and
begins her return home
on her way she is confronted by xinyang
who reveals that she was also shunned by
her people and fights for bori khan
only because he treats her as an equal
and that no one else does
additionally she reveals that the
attacks on the outposts have been a
diversion
as khan's true plan is to capture and
execute the emperor for having his
father killed
risking execution mulan returns to her
battalion to warn them of the impending
capture
tongue decides to believe her and allows
her to lead a unit to the emperor's
palace
chinyang uses her magic to be in the
image of the imperial chancellor
and persuades the emperor to accept bori
khan's challenge to single combat
while removing the city guards from
their posts
the guards are murdered and the rowans
prepare to burn the emperor alive
mulan's unit distracts the raorans while
mulan goes to save the emperor
khan tries to snipe her with an arrow
but xinyang
sympathetic to mulan and disenchanted
from khan
transforms into an eagle and sacrifices
herself by intercepting the arrow
mulan kills khan but not before he
disarms her and destroys her father's
sword
she frees the emperor who offers to let
her join his personal guard
she declines the offer and returns to
her village
mulan is reunited with her family
an emissary from the emperor under the
leadership of commander tongue
arrives to present mulan with a new
sword while making a personal request
that she joined the emperor's guard
you